Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
J M ODEL , DATA AND ANNOTATION CARDS
J.1 M ODEL CARD
Model Overview
Name SAM 2 (Segment Anything Model 2)
Version 1.0
Date 2024
Organization Meta FAIR
Mode type Promptable segmentation model
Architecture See Section 4
Repository https://github.com/facebookresearch/sam2
License Apache 2.0
Intended Use
Primary intended users SAM 2 was designed as a unified model for promptable video and image segmentation tasks.
The model was primarily developed for research use cases. SAM 2 is released under an Apache
2.0 license.
Out-of-scope use cases See Ethical considerations and license for restrictions.
Caveats and recommendations See Appendix C for limitations.
Relevant Factors
Groups SAM 2 is class agnostic and was designed for promptable image and video segmentation. It can
segment and track any object.
Instrumentation and environment SAM 2 was evaluated across a variety of types of video and image data. The video benchmark
suite included domains such as driving data, microscopy, egocentric video, robotic surgery. See
Table 18 for descriptions of the benchmarks and Figure 18 for example frames. SAM 2 was
evaluated on the same suite of image benchmarks as Kirillov et al. (2023), which covers domains
including underwater images, paintings, fish-eye images.
Metrics
We evaluate the performance of SAM 2 using the following metrics:
J &F: We evaluate performance using J &F (Pont-Tuset et al., 2017) for the promptable video
segmentation and semi-supervised VOS tasks.
G: We use G for evaluation on YTVOS 2019 for the semi-supervised VOS task.
mIoU: We evaluate performance using mIoU for the promptable image segmentation task.
Evaluation Data
Data sources See Appendix F
Training Data
Data source SAM 2 was trained on the SA-V dataset alongside internally available licensed video data. See
Section 5 of the main text for more details and Appendix J.2 for the SA-V dataset data card.
Ethical Considerations
Data See Section 5 for more details about the SAM 2 training data. In Section E.1 we show a
geographic distribution of the videos and demographic distribution of the crowdworkers who
collected the videos in the SA-V dataset.
Cost and impact of compute The released SAM 2 was trained on 256 A100 GPUs for 108 hours. This corresponds to 12165.12
kWH and an estimated emissions of 3.89 metric tons of CO2e (Patterson et al., 2021; Lacoste
et al., 2019). The emissions from training the released SAM 2 are equivalent to ∼10k miles
driven by an average gasoline-powered passenger vehicle (Agency, 2022).
Risks and harms In Section E.1.1 of the main text we analyze SAM 2 performance on people across demographic
groups. When using SAM 2 in new settings, we suggest that researchers perform their own
fairness evaluation for SAM 2 specific to their use case.
Use cases We implore users to use their best judgement.
Table 20: Model card for SAM 2 following the structure in Mitchell et al. (2019)
40