Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
5 D ATA
To develop the capability to “segment anything” in video, we built a data engine to collect a large and
diverse video segmentation dataset. We employ an interactive model in the loop setup with human
annotators. Similar to Kirillov et al. (2023), we do not impose semantic constraints on the annotated
masklets, and focus on both whole objects (e.g., a person) and parts (e.g., a person’s hat). Our data
engine went through three phases, each categorized based on the level of model assistance provided
to annotators. Next, we describe each data engine phase and our SA-V dataset.
5.1 D ATA ENGINE
Phase 1: SAM per frame. The initial phase used the image-based interactive SAM (Kirillov et al.,
2023) to assist human annotation. Annotators are tasked with annotating the mask of a target object in
every frame of the video at 6 frames per second (FPS) using SAM, and pixel-precise manual editing
tools such as a “brush” and “eraser”. There is no tracking model involved to assist with the temporal
propagation of masks to other frames. As this is a per-frame method, and all frames require mask
annotation from scratch, the process is slow, with an average annotation time of 37.8 seconds per
frame in our experiment. However, this yields high-quality spatial annotations per frame. In this
phase, we collected 16K masklets across 1.4K videos. We further use this approach to annotate our
SA-V val and test sets to mitigate potential biases of SAM 2 during evaluation.
Phase 2: SAM + SAM 2 Mask. The second phase added SAM 2 into the loop, where SAM 2 only
accepted masks as prompts. We refer to this version as SAM 2 Mask. Annotators used SAM and
other tools as in Phase 1 to generate spatial masks in the first frame, and then use SAM 2 Mask to
temporally propagate the annotated mask to other frames to get the full spatio-temporal masklets. At
any subsequent video frame, annotators can spatially modify the predictions made by SAM 2 Mask
by annotating a mask from scratch with SAM, a “brush” and/or “eraser”, and re-propagate with SAM
2 Mask, repeating this process until the masklet is correct. SAM 2 Mask was initially trained on the
Phase 1 data and publicly available datasets. During Phase 2, we re-trained and updated SAM 2 Mask
in the annotation loop twice using the collected data. In Phase 2, we collected 63.5K masklets. The
annotation time went down to 7.4 s/frame, a ∼5.1x speed up over Phase 1.
Despite an improvement in annotation time, this approach requires annotating masks in intermediate
frames from scratch without previous memory. We then advanced to develop the fully-featured
SAM 2, capable of both interactive segmentation and mask propagation in a unified model.
Phase 3: SAM 2. In the final phase, we utilize the fully-featured SAM 2, which accepts various
types of prompts, including points and masks. SAM 2 benefits from memories of objects across
the temporal dimension to generate mask predictions. This means annotators only need to provide
occasional refinement clicks to SAM 2 to edit the predicted masklets in intermediate frames, as
opposed to annotating from scratch with a spatial SAM which has no such memory context. During
Phase 3, we re-trained and updated SAM 2 using the collected annotations five times. With SAM 2 in
the loop, the annotation time per frame went down to 4.5 seconds, a ∼8.4x speed up over Phase 1. In
Phase 3, we collected 197.0K masklets.
Quality verification. To uphold a high standard for annotation, we introduce a verification step.
A separate set of annotators are tasked with verifying the quality of each annotated masklet as
“satisfactory” (correctly and consistently tracking the target object across all frames) or “unsatisfactory”
(target object is well defined with a clear boundary but the masklet is not correct or consistent).
Unsatisfactory masklets were sent back to the annotation pipeline for refinement. Any masklets
tracking not well defined objects were rejected entirely.
Auto masklet generation. Ensuring diversity in annotation is important to enable the anything
capability of our model. As human annotators might typically focus more on salient objects, we
augment the annotations with automatically generated masklets (referred to as “Auto”). This serves a
dual purpose of increasing the coverage of annotations and helping identify model failure cases. To
generate auto masklets, we prompt SAM 2 with a regular grid of points in the first frame and generate
candidate masklets. These are then sent to the masklet verification step for filtering. Automatic
masklets tagged as “satisfactory” are added to the SA-V dataset. Masklets identified as “unsatisfactory”
6