Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
benchmark for long-term object segmentation. While prior works have commonly employed GRU
(Cho et al., 2014) states as a means of incorporating memory into the tracking process, our findings
in Table 11 suggest that this approach does not provide an improvement (except slightly on LVOSv2).
Instead, we find it sufficient to directly store the memory features in the memory bank, which is both
simpler and more efficient.
Object pointers. We ablate the impact of cross-attending to the object pointer vectors from the mask
decoder output in other frames (see §4). The results presented in Table 11 show that while cross-
attending to object pointers does not enhance average performance across the 9 zero-shot datasets,
it significantly boosts performance on SA-V val dataset as well as on the challenging LVOSv2
benchmark (validation split). Hence, we default to cross-attending to object pointers together with
the memory bank embeddings from the memory encoder.
J &F mIoU
Object Pointers GRU MOSE dev SA-V val LVOSv2 val 9 zero-shot speed SA-23
73.1 64.5 67.0 70.9 1.00 × 59.9
✓ 72.3 65.3 68.9 70.5 0.97 × 60.0
✓ 73.0 68.3 71.6 70.7 1.00× 59.7
Table 11: Ablations on memory design. We use object pointers by default ( gray ) and also study
recurrent GRU memory.
B D ETAILS ON THE PVS T ASK
The Promptable Visual Segmentation (PVS) task can be seen as an extension of the Segment Anything
(SA) task from static images to videos. In the PVS setting, given an input video, the model can
be interactively prompted with different types of inputs (including clicks, boxes, or masks) on any
frame in the video, with the goal of segmenting (and tracking) a valid object throughout the video.
When interacting with a video, the model provides an instant response on the frame being prompted
(similar to the interactive experience of SAM on images), and also returns the segmentation of the
object throughout the entire video in near real-time. Similar to SAM the focus is on valid objects
which have a clearly defined boundary, and we do not consider regions without visual boundaries
(e.g. Bekuzarov et al. (2023)). Fig. 7 illustrates the task.
Segment
Anything
(SA)
Promptable Visual
Segmentation
(PVS)
Semi-supervised Video
Object Segmentation
(VOS)
Figure 7: An illustration of the Promptable Visual Segmentation task (PVS). Previously studied tasks
such as Segment Anything (SA) and semi-supervised Video Object Segmentation (VOS) can be seen
as special cases of the PVS task.
PVS is related to tasks in the image and video domains. For images, the SA task can be considered a
subset of PVS with the video reduced to a single frame. Similarly, traditional semi-supervised and
interactive VOS (Pont-Tuset et al., 2017) tasks are special cases of PVS, limited to mask prompts
provided only on the first frame and scribbles on multiple frames to segment objects throughout
a video, respectively. In PVS, prompts can either be clicks, masks, or boxes, and the focus is on
enhancing the interactive experience, enabling refinement of a segmentation with minimal interaction.
21