Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Platform and Infrastructure Choices
1. What annotation platform did you utilize? At a high level, what considerations informed your decision to choose this platform?
Did the chosen platform sufficiently meet the requirements you outlined for annotator pools? Are any aspects not covered?We
used an internal annotation platform.
2. What, if any, communication channels did your chosen platform offer to facilitate communication with annotators? How did this
channel of communication influence the annotation process and/or resulting annotations? The research team shared feedback daily
and met with the annotators weekly to align on the task instructions and expectations and to hold Q&A sessions. Outside of those
sessions, annotators had access to a spreadsheet and chat group to facilitate communication with the research team.
3. How much were annotators compensated? Did you consider any particular pay standards, when determining their compensation?
If so, please describe. (1) The video collecting crowdworkers were compensated with an hourly wage set by the vendor. (2)
Annotators were compensated with an hourly wage set by the vendor.
Dataset Analysis and Evaluation
1. How do you define the quality of annotations in your context, and how did you assess the quality in the dataset you constructed?
Annotators were required to follow a training before moving to production queues. Annotators followed a 2-day training session
led by the vendor and then were asked to annotate jobs from a training queue. Annotators were able to move from training to
production after the vendor Q&A team or the research team reviewed their work and assessed quality. On average, annotators
spent 1 - 2 weeks in training before moving to production. Similarly, the vendor and research team Q&A manually reviewed the
production queues’ annotations daily, sharing feedback daily.
2. Have you conducted any analysis on disagreement patterns? If so, what analyses did you use and what were the major findings?
Did you analyze potential sources of disagreement? The disagreement patterns were shared daily and weekly during feedback and
Q&A sessions.
3. How do the individual annotator responses relate to the final labels released in the dataset? The final labels are after data cleaning
and post processing from the individual annotator responses.
Dataset Release and Maintenance
1. Do you have reason to believe the annotations in this dataset may change over time? Do you plan to update your dataset? No.
2. Are there any conditions or definitions that, if changed, could impact the utility of your dataset? No.
3. Will you attempt to track, impose limitations on, or otherwise influence how your dataset is used? If so, how? The SA-V dataset is
released under a permissive CC by 4.0 license.
4. Were annotators informed about how the data is externalized? If changes to the dataset are made, will they be informed?No.
5. Is there a process by which annotators can later choose to withdraw their data from the dataset? If so, please detail. No.
44