Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
clicks (instead of 8 in SAM). We also employ horizontal flip augmentation during training and resize
the image to a square size of 1024×1024.
We use AdamW (Loshchilov & Hutter, 2019) and apply layer decay (Clark et al., 2020) on the image
encoder and follow a reciprocal square-root schedule (Zhai et al., 2022). See Table 12 (a) for the
hyperparameters in our pre-training stage.
D.2.2 F ULL TRAINING
After pre-training, we train SAM 2 on our introduced datasets SA-V + Internal (section §5.2), a 10%
subset of SA-1B, and a mixture of open-source video datasets including DA VIS (Pont-Tuset et al.,
2017; Caelles et al., 2019), MOSE (Ding et al., 2023), and YouTubeVOS (Xu et al., 2018b). Our
released model is trained on SA-V manual + Internal and SA-1B.
SAM 2 is designed for two tasks; the PVS task (on videos) and the SA task (on images). Training
is done jointly on image and video data. To optimize our data usage and computational resources
during training, we adopt an alternating training strategy between video data (multiple frames) and
static images (one single frame). Specifically, in each training iteration, we sample a full batch either
from the image or video dataset, with their sampling probabilities proportional to the size of each
data source. This approach allows for a balanced exposure to both tasks and a different batch size
for each data source to maximize compute utilization. Settings not explicitly mentioned here for the
image task follow settings from the pre-training phase. See Table 12 (b) for the hyperparameters
in our full training stage. The training data mixture consists of ∼15.2% SA-1B, ∼70% SA-V and
∼14.8% Internal. The same settings are used when open-source datasets are included, with the
change that the additional data is included (∼1.3% DA VIS,∼9.4% MOSE, ∼9.2% YouTubeVOS,
∼15.5% SA-1B, ∼49.5% SA-V ,∼15.1% Internal). When training on SA-V and other video datasets,
we only use those manually annotated masklets (without adding automatically generated ones), which
are sufficient to achieve strong performance based on our analyses.
We apply a series of data augmentations to the training videos (detailed in Table 12), including
random horizontal flips, random affine transforms, random color jittering, and random grayscale
transforms, as listed in Table 12. We also adopt a mosaic transform to simulate challenging scenarios
with multiple similar-looking objects – with 10% probability, we tile the same training video into a
2×2 grid and select a masklet from one of the 4 quadrants as the target object to segment. In this case,
the model must focus on other cues like motion or temporal continuity to distinguish the target object
from their identical-looking counterparts in other quadrants. In addition, the videos and objects in
each quadrant are smaller in size (only half the original width and height) after this mosaic transform,
which also facilitates learning to segment small objects.
We train by simulating an interactive setting, sampling 8-frame sequences and randomly selecting up
to 2 frames (including the first) for corrective clicks. During training, we use ground-truth masklets
and model predictions to sample prompts, with initial prompts being the ground-truth mask (50%
probability), a positive click from the ground-truth mask (25%), or a bounding box input (25%).
We restrict the maximum number of masklets for each sequence of 8 frames to 3 randomly chosen
ones. We reverse the temporal order with a probability of 50% to help generalization to bi-directional
propagation. When we sample corrective clicks, with a small probability of 10%, we randomly
sample clicks from the ground truth mask, irrespective of the model prediction, to allow additional
flexibility in mask refinement.
Fine-tuning using 16-frame sequences. A potential shortcoming of the procedure above is that
the model only sees sampled 8-frame sequences during training, which is relatively short compared
to the full video length during inference. To alleviate this issue and further boost the segmentation
quality on long videos, we introduce an extra fine-tuning stage where we sample 16-frame sequences
on challenging videos (those videos with the highest number of edited frames, as described in §E.2.1).
More specifically, we sort our masklets by number of edited frames and only consider the top 50%
most edited masklets for training, for both SA-V and Internal datasets. We still keep the complete
versions of the OSS datasets (DA VIS, MOSE, and YouTubeVOS) in the training mix. We fine-tune
for 50k iterations (1/3 of the original schedule) using half of the original learning rate and freeze the
image encoder to fit the 16-frame sequence into the 80 GB memory of A100 GPUs.
24