Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
image
embedding
(256x64x64)
x2
token
to image
attn.
2x
conv.
trans.
IoU
scores
mlp
masks
dot product
per mask
prompt tokens
(Ntokensx256)
output tokens
+
output
token
per mask
IoU
output token
mlp
mask decoder
self attn.
token to image attn.
mlp
image to token attn.
stride 4, 8 feats. from img. enc.
obj ptr
mlp
occlusion 
token occlusion 
score
Figure 8: Mask decoder architecture. The design largely follows SAM, and we additionally include
the stride 4 and 8 features from the image encoder during upsampling. We also use the mask token
corresponding to the output mask as an object pointer and generate an occlusion score which indicates
if the object of interest is visible in the current frame.
model can interpret this click as referring to only the tire or the entire bike and output multiple
predictions. In videos, this ambiguity can extend across video frames. For example, if in one frame
only the tire is visible, a click on the tire might relate to just the tire, or as more of the bike becomes
visible in subsequent frames, this click could have been intended for the entire bike. To handle this
ambiguity, SAM 2 predicts multiple masks at each step of the video. If further prompts do not resolve
the ambiguity, the model selects the mask with the highest predicted IoU for the current frame for
further propagation in the video.
Memory encoder and memory bank. Our memory encoder does not use an additional image
encoder and instead reuses the image embeddings produced by the Hiera encoder, which are fused
with the predicted mask information to produce memory features (as discussed in §4). This design
allows the memory features to benefit from the strong representations produced by the image encoder
(especially when we scale the image encoder to a larger size). Further, we project the memory
features in our memory bank to a dimension of 64, and split the 256-dim object pointer into 4 tokens
of 64-dim for cross-attention to the memory bank.
Handling multiple objects in a video. When applying SAM 2 to segment multiple objects in the
same video (such as multi-object tracking in the semi-supervised VOS evaluation), we perform
inference on each object independently. More specifically, we share the visual features from the
image encoder between all the objects in the video but run all the other model components (such as
the memory bank and the mask decoder) separately for each object.
D.2 T RAINING
D.2.1 P RE-TRAINING
We first pre-train SAM 2 on static images on the SA-1B dataset. Table 12a details the settings used
during pre-training on SA-1B – other settings not mentioned here follow Kirillov et al. (2023). The
image encoder is initialized from MAE pre-trained Hiera (Ryali et al., 2023). Similar to SAM, we
filter masks covering more than 90% of the image and restricted training to 64 randomly sampled
masks per image.
Unlike SAM, we found it beneficial to use an ℓ1 loss to more aggressively supervise the IoU
predictions and to apply a sigmoid activation to the IoU logits to restrict the output into the range
between 0 and 1. For multi-mask predictions (on the first click), we supervise the IoU predictions of
all masks to encourage better learning of when a mask might be bad, but only supervise the mask
logits with the lowest segmentation loss (linear combination of focal and dice loss). In SAM, during
iterative sampling of points, two iterations were inserted with no additional prompts (only feeding
the previous mask logits) – we do not add such iterations during our training and use 7 correction
23