Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
We introduce the Segment Anything Model 2 (SAM 2), a unified model for video and image
segmentation (we consider an image as a single-frame video). Our work includes a task, model, and
dataset (see Fig. 1).
We focus on the Promptable Visual Segmentation (PVS) task that generalizes image segmentation to
the video domain. The task takes as input points, boxes, or masks on any frame of the video to define
a segment of interest for which the spatio-temporal mask (i.e., a ‘masklet’) is to be predicted. Once a
masklet is predicted, it can be iteratively refined by providing prompts in additional frames.
Our model (§4) produces segmentation masks of the object of interest, in single images and across
video frames. SAM 2 is equipped with a memory that stores information about the object and previous
interactions, which allows it to generate masklet predictions throughout the video, and also effectively
correct these based on the stored memory context of the object from previously observed frames.
Our streaming architecture is a natural generalization of SAM to the video domain, processing video
frames one at a time, equipped with a memory attention module to attend to the previous memories
of the target object. When applied to images, the memory is empty and the model behaves like SAM.
We employ a data engine (§5) to generate training data by using our model in the loop with
annotators to interactively annotate new and challenging data. Different from most existing video
segmentation datasets, our data engine is not restricted to objects of specific categories, but instead
targeted to provide training data for segmenting any object with a valid boundary, including parts and
subparts. Compared to existing model-assisted approaches, our data engine with SAM 2 in the loop is
8.4× faster at comparable quality. Our final Segment Anything Video (SA-V) dataset (§5.2) consists
of 35.5M masks across 50.9K videos, 53× more masks than any existing video segmentation dataset.
SA-V is challenging with small objects and parts that get occluded and re-appear throughout the video.
Our SA-V dataset is geographically diverse, and a fairness evaluation of SAM 2 indicates minimal
performance discrepancy in video segmentation based on perceived gender, and little variance among
the three perceived age groups we evaluated.
Our experiments (§6) show that SAM 2 delivers a step-change in the video segmentation experience.
SAM 2 can produce better segmentation accuracy while using 3 × fewer interactions than prior
approaches. Further, SAM 2 outperforms prior work in established video object segmentation
benchmarks, under multiple evaluation settings, and delivers better performance compared to SAM
on image segmentation benchmarks, while being 6× faster. SAM 2 is shown to be effective across
a variety of video and image distributions as observed through numerous zero-shot benchmarks
including 17 for video segmentation and 37 for single-image segmentation.
We are releasing our work under permissive open licences, including the SA-V dataset, the SAM 2
model checkpoints, training code, and code for an interactive web demo.
2 R ELATED WORK
Image segmentation. Segment Anything (Kirillov et al., 2023) introduces a promptable image
segmentation task where the goal is to output a valid segmentation mask given an input prompt such
as a bounding box or a point that refers to the object of interest. SAM trained on the SA-1B dataset
allows for zero-shot segmentation which enabled its adoption to a wide range of applications. Recent
work has extended SAM, e.g., by introducing a High-Quality output token to train on fine-grained
masks (Ke et al., 2024), or improve SAM’s efficiency (Xiong et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023a;
Zhao et al., 2023). More broadly, SAM is used in a wide range of applications, including medical
imaging (Ma et al., 2024; Deng et al., 2023; Mazurowski et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2023a), remote
sensing (Chen et al., 2024; Ren et al., 2024), motion segmentation (Xie et al., 2024), and camouflaged
object detection (Tang et al., 2023).
Interactive Video Object Segmentation (iVOS). Interactive video object segmentation has emerged
as a crucial task to efficiently obtain object segmentations in videos (masklets) with user guidance,
often in the form of scribbles, clicks, or bounding boxes. A few early approaches (Wang et al., 2005;
Bai & Sapiro, 2007; Fan et al., 2015) deploy graph-based optimization to guide the segmentation
annotation process. More recent approaches (Heo et al., 2020; Cheng et al., 2021b; Delatolas et al.,
2024) often adopt a modular design, converting user inputs into a mask representation on a single
frame and then propagating it to other frames.
2