Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
SAM 2: S EGMENT ANYTHING IN IMAGES AND VIDEOS
Nikhila Ravi*,† Valentin Gabeur* Yuan-Ting Hu* Ronghang Hu* Chaitanya Ryali*
Tengyu Ma* Haitham Khedr* Roman Rädle* Chloe Rolland Laura Gustafson
Eric Mintun Junting Pan Kalyan Vasudev Alwala Nicolas Carion Chao-Yuan Wu
Ross Girshick Piotr Dollár † Christoph Feichtenhofer*,†
Meta FAIR, https://github.com/facebookresearch/sam2
ABSTRACT
We present Segment Anything Model 2 (SAM 2), a foundation model towards
solving promptable visual segmentation in images and videos. We build a data
engine, which improves model and data via user interaction, to collect the largest
video segmentation dataset to date. Our model is a simple transformer architecture
with streaming memory for real-time video processing. SAM 2 trained on our data
provides strong performance across a wide range of tasks. In video segmentation,
we observe better accuracy, using 3× fewer interactions than prior approaches. In
image segmentation, our model is more accurate and 6× faster than the Segment
Anything Model (SAM). We believe that our data, model, and insights will serve
as a significant milestone for video segmentation and related perception tasks. We
are releasing our main model, the dataset, an interactive demo and code.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Figure 1: We introduce the Segment Anything Model 2 (SAM 2), towards solving the promptable
visual segmentation task (a) with our foundation model (b), trained on our large-scale SA-V dataset
collected through our data engine (c). SAM 2 is capable of interactively segmenting regions through
prompts (clicks, boxes, or masks) on one or multiple video frames by utilizing a streaming memory
that stores previous prompts and predictions.
Segment Anything (SA) introduced a foundation model for promptable segmentation in images (Kir-
illov et al., 2023). However an image is only a static snapshot of the real world in which visual
segments can exhibit complex motion, and with the rapid growth of multimedia content, a significant
portion is now recorded with a temporal dimension, particularly in video data. Many important appli-
cations in AR/VR, robotics, autonomous vehicles, and video editing require temporal localization
beyond image-level segmentation. We believe a universal visual segmentation system should be
applicable to both images and videos.
Segmentation in video aims to determine the spatio-temporal extent of entities, which presents unique
challenges beyond those in images. Entities can undergo significant changes in appearance due to
motion, deformation, occlusion, lighting changes, and other factors. Videos often have lower quality
than images due to camera motion, blur, and lower resolution. Further, efficient processing of a
large number of frames is a key challenge. While SA successfully addresses segmentation in images,
existing video segmentation models and datasets fall short in providing a comparable capability to
“segment anything in videos”.
*core contributor, †project lead
1