Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
until reaching another low quality frame with IoU < 0.75. This is repeated while the number of
prompted frames is less than the maximum Nframe. Unlike the previous offline evaluation, in this
setting, the new prompts only affect the frames after the current paused frame but not the frames
before it.
In both settings, we evaluate on 9 densely annotated datasets in §F.1.1 (EndoVis, ESD, LVOSv2,
LV-VIS, UVO, VOST, PUMaVOS, Virtual KITTI 2, and VIPSeg). If a video contains multiple objects
to segment in its ground-truth annotations, we perform inference on each object independently. We
simulate interactive video segmentation with Nclick = 3 clicks per frame, assuming that the user
would visually locate the object to label it (with initial clicks) or to refine the current segmentation
prediction of it (with correction clicks). Specifically, when starting the first pass (where there are not
any existing predictions yet), we place an initial click on the first frame at the center1 of the object’s
ground-truth mask and then interactively add two more clicks based on the center of the error region
(between the ground-truth mask and the predicted segments on the first frame). Then in subsequent
passes (where there are already predicted segments), we interactively add three clicks based on the
center of the error region (between the ground-truth mask and the predicted segments on the frame
being prompted).
We report the average J &F metric over Nframe = 1, . . . ,8 interacted frames and the J &F metrics
under different annotation time on a video based on the following assumptions:
• On each frame, it takes Tloc = 1 sec for the annotator to visually locate an object in the
frame, and Tclick = 1.5 sec to add each click, following Delatolas et al. (2024).
• In offline mode, it takes Texam = 30 sec on a 300-frame video to examine the results
throughout the video in each round, including finding the frame with the worst segmentation
quality to add corrections (and for longer or shorter videos, this time is proportional to the
video length L, assuming the annotator could examine the results at 10 FPS).
• In online mode, it takes Texam = 30 sec on a 300-frame video to follow the results
throughout the video in total, including pausing at a frame with low quality for further
corrections (and this time is proportional to the video length L similar to the offline mode).
• The annotation time for an object is (Texam · (L/300) + Tloc + Tclick · Nclick) · Nframe in
offline mode andTexam ·(L/300)+( Tloc + Tclick · Nclick)·Nframe in online mode, where L
is the total frame number in the video, Nframe = 1, . . . ,8 is the number of frames annotated
(i.e., the number of interactive rounds), and Nclick = 3 is the number of clicks per frame.2
We show per-dataset results of SAM 2 and the two baselines (SAM+XMem++ and SAM+Cutie,
see their details below) for interactive offline and online evaluation in Fig. 13 and Fig. 14. SAM 2
outperforms both baselines with a notable margin on all datasets and settings.
F.1.3 S EMI -SUPERVISED VOS EVALUATION DETAILS
In §6.2, we also compare with previous video tracking methods under the semi-supervised VOS setting
(Pont-Tuset et al., 2017), where prompts (which can be foreground/background clicks, bounding
boxes, or ground-truth object masks) are provided only on the first frame of the video. When using
click prompts, we interactively sample either 1, 3 or 5 clicks on the first video frame, and then track
the object based on these clicks. Following the click-based evaluation in prior work (Kirillov et al.,
2023; Sofiiuk et al., 2022), the initial click is placed on the object center and subsequent clicks are
obtained from the center of the error region.
Similar to the interactive setting, here we also use SAM+XMem++ and SAM+Cutie as two baselines.
For click or box prompts, SAM is first used to handle click or bounding box inputs, and its output
mask is then used as input to XMem++ or Cutie. For mask prompts, the ground-truth object masks on
the first frame are directly used as input to XMem++ and Cutie – this is the standard semi-supervised
VOS setting and evaluates XMem++ and Cutie without using SAM.
1The center of a mask is defined as the mask pixel that has the largest Euclidean distance to the mask
boundary.
2We note that this estimation does not account for the model’s tracking FPS. The intuition is that human
annotators can only examine the results at a lower speed, and therefore the model’s tracking time is covered by
Texam.
30