Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
C L IMITATIONS
SAM 2 demonstrates strong performance in both static image and video domains, yet it encounters
difficulties in certain scenarios. The model may fail to segment objects across shot changes and
can lose track of or confuse objects in crowded scenes, after long occlusions or in extended videos.
To alleviate this issue, we designed the ability to prompt SAM 2 in any frame: if the model loses
the object or makes an error, refinement clicks on additional frames can quickly recover the correct
prediction in most cases. SAM 2 also struggles with accurately tracking objects with very thin or fine
details especially when they are fast-moving. Another challenging scenario occurs when there are
nearby objects with similar appearance (e.g., multiple identical juggling balls). Incorporating more
explicit motion modeling into SAM 2 could mitigate errors in such cases.
While SAM 2 can track multiple objects in a video simultaneously, SAM 2 processes each object sep-
arately, utilizing only shared per-frame embeddings without inter-object communication. While this
approach is simple, incorporating shared object-level contextual information could aid in improving
efficiency.
Our data engine relies on human annotators to verify masklet quality and select frames that require
correction. Future developments could include automating this process to enhance efficiency.
SAM 2 tackles the promptable visual segmentation task, and the capabilities of SAM 2 do not extend
to semantic recognition tasks. We believe that the advances made by SAM 2 can serve as a foundation
for future work in recognition for both images and videos, similar to how SAM or SA-1B dataset was
extended in (Li et al., 2023a; Yuan et al., 2024).
D SAM 2 DETAILS
D.1 A RCHITECTURE
Here we discuss further architecture details, expanding on the model description in §4.
Image encoder. We use a feature pyramid network (Lin et al., 2017) to fuse the stride 16 and
32 features from Stages 3 and 4 of the Hiera image encoder respectively to produce the image
embeddings for each frame. In addition, the stride 4 and 8 features from Stages 1 and 2 are not used
in the memory attention but are added to the upsampling layers in the mask decoder as shown in
Figure 8, which helps produce high-resolution segmentation details. We follow Bolya et al. (2023) in
using windowed absolute positional embeddings in the Hiera image encoder. In Bolya et al. (2023),
RPB provided positional information spanning across windows in the image encoder, in lieu of which
we adopt a simpler approach of interpolating the global positional embedding instead to span across
windows. We do not use any relative positional encoding. We train models with varying image
encoder sizes – T, S, B+ and L. We follow Li et al. (2022c) and use global attention in only a subset
of the image encoder layers (see Table 12).
Memory attention. In addition to sinusoidal absolute positional embeddings, we use 2d spatial
Rotary Positional Embedding (RoPE) (Su et al., 2021; Heo et al., 2024) in self-attention and cross-
attention layers. The object pointer tokens are excluded from RoPE as they do not have specific
spatial correspondence. By default, the memory attention uses L = 4 layers.
Prompt encoder and mask decoder. The prompt encoder design follows SAM, and we next discuss
additional details on design changes in the mask decoder. We use the mask token corresponding to
the output mask as the object pointer token for the frame, which is placed in the memory bank. As
discussed in §4, we also introduce an occlusion prediction head. This is accomplished by including
an additional token along with the mask and IoU output tokens. An additional MLP head is applied
to this new token to produce a score indicating the likelihood of the object of interest being visible
in the current frame (as shown in Figure 8). In the memory bank, we also add a learned occlusion
embedding to the memory features of those frames that are predicted to be occluded (invisible) by
the occlusion prediction head.
SAM introduced the ability to output multiple valid masks when faced with ambiguity about the
object being segmented in an image. For example, when a person clicks on the tire of a bike, the
22