Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
E.2.2 D ATA ENGINE PHASE COMPARISON
The comparison of data engine phases shown in Table 1 was conducted as a controlled experiment
using 169 videos and 452 masklets. We ask three subsets of annotators to annotate the same set of
objects with the annotation protocol from each phase. We categorize masklets into three buckets
based on the mask area in the first frame (small: 1 to 322, medium: 322 to 962, and large: equal or
greater than 962). Phase 1 data is used as the quality reference, due to the high quality masks from
frame-by-frame manual annotation with SAM.
F D ETAILS ON ZERO -SHOT TRANSFER EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we describe further details of our zero-shot experiments (§6). Unless otherwise noted,
the results reported in this section follow our default setup using Hiera-B+ image encoder with a
resolution of 1024 and trained on the full combination of datasets, i.e., SAM 2 (Hiera-B+) in Table 6.
F.1 Z ERO-SHOT VIDEO TASKS
F.1.1 V IDEO DATASET DETAILS
We evaluate SAM 2 on a diverse benchmark of 17 zero-shot datasets: EndoVis 2018 (Allan et al.,
2020) contains medical surgery videos with robotic instruments. ESD (Huang et al., 2023) contains
videos from a robot manipulator camera often with motion blur. LVOSv2 (Hong et al., 2024)
is a benchmark for long-term video object segmentation. LV-VIS (Wang et al., 2023) contains
videos from a diverse set of open-vocabulary object categories. UVO (Wang et al., 2021b) contains
videos for open-world object segmentation, and VOST (Tokmakov et al., 2022) contains videos with
objects undergoing large transformations such as egg broken or paper torn. PUMaVOS (Bekuzarov
et al., 2023) contains videos with segments around object parts such as a person’s cheek. Virtual
KITTI 2 (Cabon et al., 2020) is a synthetic video dataset with driving scenes. VIPSeg (Miao et al.,
2022) provides object segmentation in panoptic videos. Wildfires (Toulouse et al., 2017) contains
wildfire videos under different conditions from the Corsican Fire Database. VISOR (Darkhalil
et al., 2022) contains egocentric videos in kitchen scenes with segments around hands and active
objects. FBMS (Brox et al., 2010) provides motion segmentation over moving objects in videos.
Ego-Exo4D (Grauman et al., 2023) is a large dataset with egocentric videos around various human
activities. Cityscapes (Cordts et al., 2016) contains videos for urban driving scenes. Lindenthal
Camera (Haucke & Steinhage, 2021) contains videos in a wildlife park with segments around observed
animals such as birds and mammals. HT1080WT Cells (Gómez-de Mariscal et al., 2021) contains
microscopy videos with cell segments. Drosophila Heart (Fishman et al., 2023) contains microscopy
videos for the heart of fruit flies.
Among these 17 zero-shot video datasets above, 9 of them (EndoVis, ESD, LVOSv2, LV-VIS,
UVO, VOST, PUMaVOS, Virtual KITTI 2, and VIPSeg) have dense object segments annotated for
every video frame. In the remaining 8 datasets (Wildfires, VISOR, FBMS, Ego-Exo4D, Cityscapes,
Lindenthal Camera, HT1080WT Cells, and Drosophila Heart), the object segments are sparsely
annotated over only a subset of video frames, and we compute the metrics on those frames where the
ground-truth segmentation masks are available. In most evaluations of the paper, we only evaluate
zero-shot performance on the 9 densely annotated datasets, while in our semi-supervised VOS
evaluation (§6.2), we evaluate on all these 17 datasets listed above.
F.1.2 I NTERACTIVE OFFLINE AND ONLINE EVALUATION DETAILS
Offline evaluation involves multiple passes over the entire video. We start with click prompts on the
first frame, segment the object throughout the entire video, and then in the next pass, we select the
frame with the lowest segmentation IoU w.r.t. the ground-truth as the new frame for prompting. The
model then segments the object again throughout the video based on all prompts received previously,
until reaching a maximum of Nframe passes (with one new prompted frame in each pass).
Online evaluation involves only one pass over the entire video. We start with click prompts on the
first frame and propagate the prompts across the video, pausing propagation when encountering a
frame with a low-quality prediction (IoU < 0.75 with ground-truth). We then add additional click
prompts on the paused frame to correct the segment on this frame and resume the propagationforward
29