Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
f r a m e  1
s t e p  1
s t e p  2
f r a m e  2 f r a m e  3 f r a m e  4
Figure 2: Interactive segmentation with SAM 2. Step 1 (selection): we prompt SAM 2 in frame 1
to obtain the segment of the target object (the tongue). Green/red dots indicate positive/negative
prompts respectively. SAM 2 automatically propagates the segment to the following frames (blue
arrows) to form a masklet. If SAM 2 loses the object (after frame 2), we can correct the masklet by
providing an additional prompt in a new frame (red arrow). Step 2 (refinement): a single click in
frame 3 is sufficient to recover the object and propagate it to obtain the correct masklet. A decoupled
SAM + video tracker approach would require several clicks in frame 3 (as in frame 1) to correctly
re-annotate the object as the segmentation is restarted from scratch. With SAM 2’s memory, a single
click can recover the tongue.
4 M ODEL
SAM 2 (Fig. 3) can be seen as a generalization of SAM to the video (and image) domain, taking point,
box, and mask prompts on individual frames to define the spatial extent of the object to be segmented
spatio-temporally. Spatially, the model behaves similarly to SAM. A promptable andlight-weight
mask decoder takes an image embedding and prompts (if any) and outputs a segmentation mask for
the frame. Prompts can be iteratively added on a frame in order to refine the masks.
The frame embedding used by the SAM 2 decoder is not directly from an image encoder and is instead
conditioned on memories of past predictions and prompted frames. It is possible for prompted frames
to also come “from the future” relative to the current frame. Memories of frames are created by the
memory encoder based on the current prediction and placed in a memory bank for use in subsequent
frames. The memory attention operation takes the per-frame embedding from the image encoder and
conditions it on the memory bank, before the mask decoder ingests it to form a prediction.
We describe individual components and training below and provide more details in Appendix D.
Image encoder. For real-time processing of arbitrarily long videos, we take a streaming approach,
consuming video frames as they become available. The image encoder is only run once for the entire
interaction and its role is to provide unconditioned tokens (feature embeddings) representing each
frame. We use an MAE (He et al., 2022) pre-trained Hiera (Ryali et al., 2023; Bolya et al., 2023)
image encoder, which is hierarchical, allowing us to use multiscale features during decoding.
Memory attention. The role of memory attention is to condition the current frame features on
the past frames features and predictions as well as on any new prompts. We stack L transformer
blocks, the first one taking the image encoding from the current frame as input. Each block performs
self-attention, followed by cross-attention to memories of (prompted/unprompted) frames and object
pointers (see below), stored in a memory bank (see below), followed by an MLP. We use vanilla
attention operations for self- and cross-attention, allowing us to benefit from recent developments in
efficient attention kernels (Dao, 2023).
Prompt encoder and mask decoder.Our prompt encoder is identical to SAM’s and can be prompted
by clicks (positive or negative), boxes, or masks to define the extent of the object in a given frame.
Sparse prompts are represented by positional encodings summed with learned embeddings for each
prompt type, while masks are embedded using convolutions and summed with the frame embedding.
4