Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
G A PPLICATION OF SA-V DATA TO OTHER MODELS
The segment anything in images and videos capability of SAM 2 can be attributed to both its model
design as well as its large-scale, high-quality training data, including SA-1B and SA-V .
Note that the SA-V dataset was collected in a model-in-the-loop fashion, in order to improve SAM 2
and correct its failure cases, while at the same time enabling flexible annotation for targeted data
collection, including full objects and parts. This iterative process led to improvements in both the
model and the data.
In this section, we aim to evaluate if the SA-V data can also benefit existing models, beyond SAM
2. To evaluate this, we use SA-V to train a recent semi-supervised VOS model, Cutie (Cheng et al.,
2023a), which SA-V was not collected for, to assess SA-V’s generalization capabilities.
To assess the generality of SA-V , we compare the performance of Cutie models trained with and
without it, both for the existing VOS task with mask input and for interactive video segmentation
with click or bounding box input (identical to the setup in §6.2). We report results in Table 17.
mask 5-click box mask
Method SA-V
test
MOSE
val
DA VIS
2017 test
LVOS
val
17 zero-shot datasets (§6.2)
Cutie 62.2 68.3 85.3 63.5 71.7 68.6 73.5
Cutie + SA-V 68.7 67.6 84.5 65.0 73.4 70.4 75.5
SAM 2 78.4 77.9 87.7 78.0 77.6 74.4 79.3
Table 17: Our SA-V data has a broader utility beyond SAM 2 and helps zero-shot generalization in
other models. Including SA-V in the training mix improves the performance of Cutie on SA-V test
and provides zero-shot gains on LVOS and 17 zero-shot datasets. The final performance of Cutie +
SA-V still falls short of the full SAM 2 shown in the last row.
As a baseline, the first row of Table 17 shows theJ &F accuracy of the official Cutie model trained on
DA VIS, YouTubeVOS, and MOSE (referred to as “w/ MOSE” in Cheng et al. (2023a)) as evaluated
by us on SA-V test and our zero-shot benchmark of 17 datasets (using 5 clicks or bounding box as
input to SAM+Cutie or ground-truth mask input to Cutie; see §F.1.3 for details). Performance on
MOSE, DA VIS, and LVOS benchmarks is from officially reported numbers.
In the second row of Table 17, we train another Cutie model on our data mixture consisting of SA-V ,
DA VIS, YouTube-VOS, and MOSE. We use the same data mixture ratio as for SAM 2 and follow
the official Cutie training recipe. Including SA-V in the training mix brings a large performance
improvement on the SA-V benchmark. Although integrating SA-V into the training mix does not
improve the performance on MOSE and DA VIS in-domain benchmarks, it boosts the zero-shot
performance as shown by gains of +1.5 on LVOS and +2.0 on our 17 zero-shot benchmark suite
under mask input, and similar boost for the out-of-domain click and box prompts.
Finally, the last row shows the accuracy of SAM 2, which significantly outperforms the Cutie models
under both training settings, suggesting that the SAM 2 architecture design is another crucial aspect
of the final performance.
H D ETAILS ON COMPARISON TO STATE -OF-THE -ART IN SEMI -SUPERVISED
VOS
We provide additional details on the comparison to the previous state-of-the-art in semi-supervised
VOS (§7). We include results from SAM 2 trained only on SA-1B, SA-V and Internal data, for
different encoder sizes.
Qualitative comparison: In Fig. 17, we show a comparison between our baseline (Cutie-base+, top
row) and our model (SAM 2, bottom row) when prompted with a mask in the first frame. While
the mask prompt in the first frame only covers the shirt of the person, the masklet predicted by the
baseline wrongfully propagates to the whole person. Our model, however, is able to restrict the
masklet to the target object.
36