Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
guesses for age or language)? If the data was reported by subjects or indirectly inferred/derived from other data, was the data
validated/verified? If so, please describe how. The released masklets associated with each video were collected using two methods.
(1) SAM 2 assisted manual annotation (2) automatically generated by SAM 2 and verified by annotators.
2. What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatuses or sensors, manual human curation,
software programs, software APIs)? How were these mechanisms or procedures validated?The videos in the dataset were collected
via a contracted third-party vendor. They are videos taken by crowdworkers with unknown equipment.
3. If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy (e.g., deterministic, probabilistic with specific sampling
probabilities)? N/A.
4. Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated (e.g.,
how much were crowdworkers paid)? (1) The videos in the dataset were collected via a contracted third-party vendor. They are
videos taken by crowdworkers who were compensated with an hourly wage set by the vendor. (2) The manually collected masklets
in the dataset were collected by annotators via another third-party vendor. Annotators were compensated with an hourly wage set
by the vendor.
5. Over what timeframe was the data collected? Does this timeframe match the creation timeframe of the data associated with the
instances (e.g., recent crawl of old news articles)? If not, please describe the timeframe in which the data associated with the
instances was created. The videos were filmed between November 2023 and March 2024. The masklet annotations were collected
between April 2024 and July 2024.
6. Were any ethical review processes conducted (e.g., by an institutional review board)? If so, please provide a description of these
review processes, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to any supporting documentation. If the dataset
does not relate to people, you may skip the remaining questions in this section. The project underwent an internal review process.
7. Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third parties or other sources (e.g. websites)? We
contracted with third-party vendors to collect the videos and to generate or review annotations.
8. Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection? If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or other
information) how notice was provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, the exact language of
the notification itself. The videos were collected by crowdworkers via a contracted third-party vendor. The crowdworkers agreed to
consent forms.
9. Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data? If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or
other information) how consent was requested and provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce,
the exact language to which the individuals consented. The videos were collected via a contracted third-party who provided
appropriate representations regarding the collection of any notices and consents as required from individuals.
10. If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism to revoke their consent in the future or for
certain uses? If so, please provide a description, as well as a link or other access point to the mechanism (if appropriate). Pursuant
to the contract, the contracted third-party collected consents and provided opportunity for consent revocation.
11. Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects (e.g., a data protection impact analysis) been
conducted? If so, please provide a description of this analysis, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to
any supporting documentation. See detail in E.1.1.
12. Any other comments? No.
Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling
1. Was any preprocessing / cleaning / labeling of the data done (e.g., discretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging,
SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values)? If so, please provide a description. If not, you may
skip the remaining questions in this section. The videos were re-sampled to 24 fps and converted to mp4 format.
2. Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)? If so,
please provide a link or other access point to the “raw” data. No.
Uses
1. Has the dataset been used for any tasks already? If so, please provide a description. The dataset has been used to train and evaluate
SAM 2.
2. What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for? The data could be used for VOS, iVOS, or PVS tasks. If frames are sampled
from the videos, the dataset can be used for the image segmentation task.
3. Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might
impact future uses? For example, is there anything that a dataset consumer might need to know to avoid uses that could result in
unfair treatment of individuals or groups (e.g., stereotyping, quality of service issues) or other risks or harms (e.g., legal risks,
financial harms)? If so, please provide a description. Is there anything a dataset consumer could do to mitigate these risks or
harms? We have an analysis of the geography and crowdworker demographic of our dataset in 5.2. While we believe our dataset to
be more representative on these factors than most of the publicly existing datasets of its kind at this time, we acknowledge that
we do not have parity across all geographic and demographic groups, and we encourage users of the dataset to be mindful of any
potential biases models may learn using this dataset.
4. Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used? If so, please provide a description. No. Full terms of use for the dataset
can be found at https://ai.meta.com/datasets/segment-anything-video-downloads/.
5. Any other comments? No.
Distribution
1. Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity (e.g., company, institution, organization) on behalf of which the
dataset was created? If so, please provide a description. The dataset will be available under the permissive Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International Public License.
2. How will the dataset will be distributed (e.g., tarball on website, API, GitHub)? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)? The dataset is available at https://ai.meta.com/datasets/segment-anything-video/.
42