Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
Prompt encoder
Mask
time
Points Box
memory
 attention
memory
bank
mask decoder
image
encoder
memory
encoder
Figure 3: The SAM 2 architecture. For a given frame, the segmentation prediction is conditioned on
the current prompt and/or on previously observed memories. Videos are processed in a streaming
fashion with frames being consumed one at a time by the image encoder, and cross-attended to
memories of the target object from previous frames. The mask decoder, which optionally also takes
input prompts, predicts the segmentation mask for that frame. Finally, a memory encoder transforms
the prediction and image encoder embeddings (not shown in the figure) for use in future frames.
Our decoder design largely follows SAM. We stack “two-way” transformer blocks that update prompt
and frame embeddings. As in SAM, for ambiguous prompts (i.e., a single click) where there may be
multiple compatible target masks, we predict multiple masks. This design is important to ensure that
the model outputs valid masks. In video, where ambiguity can extend across video frames, the model
predicts multiple masks on each frame. If no follow-up prompts resolve the ambiguity, the model
only propagates the mask with the highest predicted IoU for the current frame.
Unlike SAM where there is always a valid object to segment given a positive prompt, in the PVS task
it is possible for no valid object to exist on some frames (e.g. due to occlusion). To support this new
output mode, we add an additional head that predicts whether the object of interest is present on the
current frame. Another novelty are skip connections from our hierarchical image encoder (bypassing
the memory attention) to incorporate high-resolution embeddings for mask decoding (see §D).
Memory encoder. The memory encoder generates a memory by downsampling the output mask
using a convolutional module and summing it element-wise with the unconditioned frame embedding
from the image-encoder (not shown in Fig. 3), followed by light-weight convolutional layers to fuse
the information.
Memory bank. The memory bank retains information about past predictions for the target object in
the video by maintaining a FIFO queue of memories of up to N recent frames and stores information
from prompts in a FIFO queue of up to M prompted frames. For instance, in the VOS task where the
initial mask is the only prompt, the memory bank consistently retains the first frame’s memory along
with memories of up to N recent (unprompted) frames. Both sets of memories are stored as spatial
feature maps.
In addition to the spatial memory, we store a list of object pointers as lightweight vectors for high-
level semantic information of the object to segment, based on mask decoder output tokens of each
frame. Our memory attention cross-attends to both spatial memory features and these object pointers.
We embed temporal position information into the memories of N recent frames, allowing the model
to represent short-term object motion, but not into those of prompted frames, because the training
signal from prompted frames is sparser and it is more difficult to generalize to the inference setting
where prompted frames may come from a very different temporal range than seen during training.
Training. The model is trained jointly on image and video data. Similar to previous work (Kirillov
et al., 2023; Sofiiuk et al., 2022), we simulate interactive prompting of the model. We sample
sequences of 8 frames and randomly select up to 2 frames to prompt and probabilistically receive
corrective clicks which are sampled using the ground-truth masklet and model predictions during
training. The training task is to sequentially (and “interactively”) predict the ground-truth masklet.
Initial prompts to the model can be the ground-truth mask with probability 0.5, a positive click
sampled from the ground-truth mask with probability 0.25, or a bounding box input with probability
0.25. See §D for more details.
5