Efficient Video Object Segmentation and Tracking
with Recurrent Dynamic Submodel
Weidong Tang1,2, Zhiyuan Liang2,3, Xinyan Wan1, Chen Zhu1,2
Zhaopan Xu4, Pengfei Zhou2, Yan Song3, Yang You2, Wangbo Zhao2†
1Xidian University 2National University of Singapore
3University of Science and Technology of China 4Harbin Institute of Technology
Abstract
Large vision foundation models, such as SAM2, have
achieved remarkable performance in video object segmen-
tation and tracking (VOST). However, their effectiveness
is hindered by significant computational overhead. While
model pruning is a widely used strategy to address this
issue, traditional static and input-agnostic pruning ap-
proaches fall short in managing the diverse and complex
nature of video data effectively. A promising alternative
is dynamic networks, yet they often struggle to translate
theoretical computational reductions into actual acceler-
ation. Furthermore, both static and dynamic approaches
typically focus on visual features of individual frames while
neglecting the temporal correlations between them, limiting
their performance in handling complex video streams. To
address these challenges, we proposeRecurrentDynamic
Submodel (RDS), a dynamic architecture that adaptively
selects submodel blocks for each frame. Specifically, it has
a lightweight Prediction-Aware Router (PAR), which lever-
ages both the segmentation mask from the previous frame
and the visual features of the current frame to make rout-
ing decisions, enabling the submodel to explicitly capture
the temporal nature of video data. Additionally, to reduce
the cost of adapting the dynamic submodel, we introduce an
Importance-aware LoRA (I-LoRA), tuning parameters only
in the most critical blocks. Extensive experiments show that
our approach achieves an optimal trade-off between perfor-
mance and speed, requiring minimal trainable parameters
and training data.
1. Introduction
Recent advancements in large vision foundation models,
such as SAM2 [32], have significantly propelled progress in
video object segmentation and tracking (VOST) [3, 8, 23,
42, 46, 50, 52]. While these models demonstrate remark-
†Corresponding author.
able performance, their broader application remains con-
strained by their substantial computational requirements,
particularly in resource-limited environments.
To tackle this challenge, prior works [4, 11] have pro-
posed static model pruning techniques to reduce model size.
However, these input-agnostic approaches often struggle
with temporally varied and complex video data. This is
because different tasks, datasets, or even individual video
frames may favor distinct key components of the original
model, as illustrated in Figure 1 (a).
Dynamic models [17, 26, 36, 38] offer an effective al-
ternative to static model pruning by adaptively activating a
submodel customized for each input frame. This dynamic
activation is typically implemented using a lightweight
router, which conditions on intermediate features to selec-
tively activate components along the computational path,
such as tokens [21, 25, 26, 30, 31, 47, 51] and blocks [2, 13–
15, 17, 20, 26, 35, 45]. However, while they achieve theo-
retical FLOPs reduction, the acceleration benefits are often
offset by the additional overhead introduced by per-block
routers, as illustrated in Figure 1 (b).
Moreover, both the pruning criteria used in static model
pruning approaches and the intermediate features employed
for routing in dynamic models are often adapted from
image-based models by treating video streams as mere se-
quences of individual images. This simplification gener-
ally overlooks the temporal correlations between consecu-
tive frames, thereby limiting their performance potential.
To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose
theRecurrentDynamicSubmodel (RDS), a dynamic archi-
tecture designed for efficient VOST. Our framework adap-
tively activates a subset of blocks for each video frame,
guided by a lightweight, prediction-aware router. This
router leverages the segmentation mask of the previous
frame as a temporal prior and combines it with visual fea-
tures from the current frame. By fusing temporal and vi-
sual information, the router adaptively determines the acti-
vation of submodels, effectively overcoming the temporal-
agnostic limitations of prior approaches. Unlike existing
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
20912
